<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_financial_benefits">
    <title>Financial benefits</title>
    <shortdesc>Examples of calculations of financial benefits when using multiple deduction method
        for companies employing 647 and 1500 workers </shortdesc>
    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
        <p>In order to avoid payments to PFRON by employing persons with disabilities, the
            employment rate of such persons should be at least 6%.</p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>COMPANY 1 - hiring 647 FTEs - real life example</b></p>
        <p><b>Company profile:</b> A manufacturing/logistics company. Physical work is domitating,
            in such companies it is the most difficult to eliminate penalties for PFRON.</p>
        <p>Baseline:<ul id="ul_xkt_xfm_htb">
                <li>647 FTEs in general</li>
                <li>4 employees with disabilities</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_q1z_rgm_htb">
                <li>The employment rate of persons with disabilities in this company is
                    <b>0.6%</b>(4/647)</li>
                <li>The company has to pay obligatory contribution for not employing <b>34.8
                        FTEs</b>with disabilities based on the following calculations<p>
                        647*0,06=38,8</p><p> 38,8 – 4 </p></li>
                <li>The sum of the contributions to be paid is <b>84 807,74 PLN </b>(18309,39
                    EUR/19815,35 USD) monthly based on<p>34,8*0,4065*<b>5 995,09 PLN</b>= 84 807,74
                        PLN</p></li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><b>What is an optimal way to fill 34,8 full-time positions with persons with disabilities
                and forget about contributions paid to PFRON?</b></p>
        <p>The fastest solution is to employ remote workers (from any part of Poland) who are
            entitled to a triple or fourfold PFRON allowance.</p>
        <p><b>The solution adopted by the employer for reducing of PFRON payments:</b></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_jw1_p3m_htb">
                <li> employment of one person with a single deduction from PFRON. This person is a
                    "handyman" for physical work. It was not possible to find a person with a
                    disability with multiple deductions for this position</li>
                <li>employment for the other vacancies persons with triple or fourfold deductions
                    from PFRON for the fully remote office jobs. Most of them were able to come to
                    the company's premises for a few days of training; however this was not a
                    requirement of the employer. Some persons with disabilities with severe
                    conditions (in wheelchairs) were trained online.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="235,192,230"?> One person with a
            fourfold deduction (9,744 PLN/ 2,096 EUR/2,096 USD) received a gross salary of 8000 PLN
            (1,721 EUR/1,856 USD). The employer's costs (to cover her salary) are 9600 PLN (2,065
            EUR/2,227 USD). Another person has an excellent knowledge of Excel and B2 level English.
            She is entitled to a triple deduction (7308 PLN/1,572 EUR/1,695 USD). She will earn 5000
            PLN gross (1,075 EUR/1,160 USD). The employer's costs are about 6000 PLN (1,290
            EUR/1,392 USD).<?oxy_custom_end?></p>
        <p> </p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>COMPANY 2 - hiring 1500 FTEs</b></p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>Company profile:</b>office work is dominating - banking, insurance etc. Headquarter of
            the X company. </p>
        <p>Baseline:<ul id="ul_ds4_ylm_htb">
                <li>1500 FTEs in general</li>
                <li>9 employees with disabilities</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p/>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_i2g_dmm_htb">
                <li>The employment rate of persons with disabilities in this company is
                    <b>0.6%</b>(9/1500)</li>
                <li>The company has to pay obligatory contribution for not employing <b>81
                    FTEs</b>with disabilities based on the following calculations<p>
                        1500*0,06=90</p><p> 90 – 9 </p></li>
                <li>The sum of the contributions to be paid is <b>197,316 PLN </b>(42,564 EUR/46,060
                    USD) monthly based on<p>81*0,4065*<b>5 995,09 PLN</b>= 197,316 PLN which
                        annually is <b>2,367,792 PLN</b>(510,682 EUR/552,728 USD) </p></li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><b>The solution that can be adopted by the employer for the fastest reduction of PFRON
                payments:</b></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_kwn_jnm_htb">
                <li>employment of 20 people with the fourfold deduction (20*4=80) and one at 0.25
                    FTE (4*0.25 = 1).</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="235,192,230"?>Let us assume that
            the employer hires these 21 persons on 81 full-time positions paying on average for the
            whole position 3900 PLN gross (employer's costs 4680 PLN). </p>
        <p>In case of employing one person from the amount of four times allowance (9744 PLN) 48% is
            spent on salaries of persons with disabilities. 52% of the amount is left on the company
            account.</p>
        <p>Annually it gives no less than 1.231.252 PLN (265,555 EUR/286,991
            USD)<?oxy_custom_end?></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
