<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_job_advertisement">
    <title>Job advertisement</title>
    <shortdesc>What a job advertisement for person with a disability should contain</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <ol>
            <li>A precise job description and the requirements for the candidate. It should include
                all the essential information about what the employee will have to do. It is
                essential to include the information that occasionally this person as part of
                his/her duties may for example need to load goods into car. In this case, it is best
                to specify the maximum weight that the person must be able to to carry at one time.
                Some people with locomotor disabilities may reject such an offer. People with a
                mobility impairment may refuse such an offer outright or may contact employer and
                ask for further details.</li>
            <li>A salary information is a very important detail and should be included in the
                advertisement as persons with disabilities have to consider how this will impact
                help they receive from the social welfare center. The times when a disabled person
                would accept any job offer for the minimun wage are coming to an end. Taking up work
                for the minimum wage is equivalent to or even less than the payments received from
                social assistance centres. It is desirable to include the wage for the probationary
                period (up to 3 months) and after its ending.</li>
            <li>A statement confirming compliance with all the standards and regulations regarding
                rights of people with disabilities like extended leave for disabled people, etc. </li>
            <li>It is worth adding: "As a socially responsible company we are open to employment of
                people with disabilities". This cannot be an empty declaration and cannot be used
                purely for the purpose of creating a corporate image. It is necessary to go a step
                further, be more specific and include an information like for example: "We also
                welcome in our team people with epilepsy, mental illnesses, visual impairments
                (moderate level of disability). Unfortunately, due to architectural barriers that we
                are not able to overcome, we do not have the possibility to employ people in
                wheelchairs</li>
            <li>Other information which is standard in job advertisements.</li>
        </ol>
    </conbody>
</concept>
