<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_low_employment_rate_reasons">
    <title>Low employment rate</title>
    <shortdesc>Reasons of low employment amongst people with disabilities</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_hsn_ngd_ftb">
                <li>job offers received by labour offices are not attractive to persons with
                    disabilities neither in terms of the type of position offered, nor the wages.
                    Wages pay a significant role in decision process of a person with a disability
                    to take a job due to the fact that undertaking the job might cause loosing
                    various types of benefits from social assistance centres. Very often a minimum
                    wage is an equivalent to the amount received from social assistance centes.</li>
                <li>maladjustment of workplaces to the needs of persons with disabilities,
                    architectural or transport barriers. Within 56,000 persons with disabilities who
                    were registered as unemployed in 2020 one third lived in village areas where a
                    public transport is often problematic. In this situation commuting to work is a
                    big challenge to these people. </li>
                <li>reluctancy to employ persons with disabilities, especially older people, even
                    though this kind of employment could give employers a number of advantages. For
                    example, if these were people who have a significant degree of disability
                    related to a specific medical condition, employer could use a fourfold deduction
                    and save over PLN 8,000.</li>
                <li>part of the employers treat persons with disabilities as a cheap labour, they
                    employ them for the time of obtaining refunds and financing for this purpose and
                    dismiss them after the end of the employment period, after which they employ
                    other people referred by the labour office.</li>
                <li>the lack of a consistent policy on the labour market regarding persons with
                    disabilities resulting in low number of job offers for persons with disabilities </li>
                <li>professional inactivity of persons with disabilities. In the period covered by
                    the audit, more than 80% of people with certificates of disability were neither
                    working nor trying to find employment</li>
                <li>low or no qualifications among disabled people. Analysis of data concerning
                    registered disabled persons shows that most of them have low qualifications,
                    i.e. basic education and little professional experience. Almost 25% of
                    unemployed disabled people registered in a Labour Office in 2020 did not have
                    any qualifications. About 63.7% had basic vocational and primary education. The
                    percentage of people with higher education (as at the end of 2020) is only 8%,
                    while nationally it is more than 30%. Their situation on the labour market was
                    also not facilitated by their age. More than a half of persons with disabilities
                    registered in 2020 were over 50 years old, and 14.5% were already 60 years old
                    or more.</li>
                <li>reluctancy of employers to emmploy persons with disabilities due to concerns
                    about health-related absenteeism caused by their disability. </li>
                <li>longer waiting period for employment of persons with disabilities in a Labour
                    Office in comparison with unemployed people without disabilities. In 2020, out
                    of 9380 registered, 1881 were looking for employment from 12 to 24 months, and
                    4327 for more than two years.</li>
                <li>companies' policies that do not promote employment of persons with
                    disabilities</li>
                <li>lack of knowledge of HR regarding hiring people of disabilities. People with
                    disabilities are often discriminated on the recruitment stage. HR resign form
                    the further recruitment process from the person with a disabilitiy when they
                    find out that the person has a disability certificate. This prevents people with
                    disabilities from coming out.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p>
            <note id="note_x1y_vh5_ftb">in the case of the persons with disabilities, the receipt of
                various types of benefits, including those financed due to a disability, result in a
                lack of interest in taking up work because of the risk of losing these
                    benefits.<p>Recipients of social benefits are in the worst situation. If their
                    monthly income due to the contract of employment exceeds 70% of the average
                    salary, the pension in a given month is suspended. They do not obtain or have to
                    return the received benefit of 930 PLN net. It is not affected though when the
                    person with a disability receives remuneration of up to 3,387 PLN gross.
                    Disabled persons are driven by various motivations not to exceed the earnings
                    threshold. One of them is that pensions are granted periodically and they may be
                    concerned about the medical commission's next decision. </p><p> Those collecting
                    social pension from ZUS are in a better situation. With earnings up to 70% of
                    the average salary their pensions remain untouched. From 70% to 130% of the
                    average salary, pensions are subject to reduction and they are suspended above
                    130%</p></note>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
