<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_what_can_be_done_to_reduce_payments">
    <title>Multiple deduction</title>
    <shortdesc>How to reduce or get rid of the payments to PFRON by using a multiple
        deduction</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p dir="ltr">By using a multiple deduction method we can promptly reduce obligatory
            contributions to PFRON. Apart from gaining valuable employees the company will keep a
            lot of net cash in the company (already after paying salaries to people with
            disabilities). </p>
        <p>Companies can diminish or even eliminate completely the obligatory payments to PFRON by
            using a multiple deduction method. This option is beneficial to companies as well as to
            persons with disabilities who want to be professionally active. Companies can pay less
            contributions or no contributions at all and give a work to persons with disabilities.
            In this case, they have a worker for free.</p>
        <p>Companies that employ in a given month at least 25 FTEs are obliged to employ 6% of the
            people with disabilities. When this indicator is achieved, they can apply for a
            reimbursement of the cost of employing a disabled person. However, it may not be an easy
            task to employ 6% persons with disabilities, especially when we talk about big
            companies. In such cases, these companies are obliged to pay huge amounts of money to
            PFRON. Employing a person with a disability can reduce the payment. For every person
            with a disability that is employed, an employer can deduct a specific amount of money,
            which otherwise would need to be paid as an obligatory payment</p>
        <p>If the employer would hire a person with a disability, he could deduct 2,436 PLN. When a
            person's disability is related to a <b><xref href="#c_specific_medical_conditions"
                    >specific medical condition</xref></b>, the amount that can be deducted can be 3
            or 4 higher, depending on which degree of disability a person has. Let's assume that the
            employer hires a person with a significant degree of disability and a specific medical
            condition. According to PFRON rules, an employer can count this person as 4 workers for
            the purposes of the deduction (1=4)</p>
        <p><b>Single deduction </b>- 2,436 PLN (526 EUR/571 USD)</p>
        <p><b>Triple deduction:</b> moderate degree of disability caused by a specfic medical
            condition - 7,308 PLN (1,580 EUR/1,710 USD)</p>
        <p><b>Fourfold deduction:</b> significant degree of disability caused by a specific medical
            condition - 9,744 PLN (2,104 EUR/2,285 USD)</p>
        <p>The amount of deductions will increase from quarter to quarter in keeping with the
            average salary in the economy. The amount of the deduction when employing a person who
            is entitled to a fourfold deduction may reach 10,000 PLN (2,157 EUR/2,338 USD) this
            year.</p>
        <p>Employment of a person with a disability that has a specific medical condition and a
            significant degree of disability would cause that the employer would not have to pay
            monthly 9,744 PLN (4 x 2,436 PLN) to PFRON, which is equivalent of 2,104 EUR. If the
            employer compensated the employee by paying him or her a salary of 3,200 PLN gross (691
            EUR/750 USD), he would still save 63% of the amount saved on the obligatory payment to
            PFRON. The company would be in the black 73,584 PLN (15,894 EUR/ 17,243 USD) annually
            and would have a worker ready for work.</p>
        <p/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
