<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_teleworking">
    <title>Teleworking</title>
    <shortdesc>Advantages of employing person with a disability to work remotely</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>COVID-19 has changed employers' attitude towards remote work. It has been proved that
            workers' efficiency does not decline when not supervised all the time. Currently, it has
            become more acceptable that many employees may never show up at the company premises.
            These are the perfect conditions for employing people with disabilites, to whom health
            or architectural barriers could be obstacles making it implossible to work. Physical
            presence is not needed for performing jobs like an interpreter, an HR professional, a
            lawyer, a white-collar interviewer, these are all ideal jobs for telecommuters. In most
            cases, they don't need their employer to provide them with equipment to perform their
            duties as they can use their own and bill the employer a lump sum. The financial
            benefits for employers can be immense thanks to this solution.</p>
        <p>However, if a person with disabilities would like to work stationary, there are some
            things that need to be checked first. A notion of a person in a wheelchair as a
            stationary employee can strike a fear that the company building is not adapted to
            her/his needs. As part of the interview process, employer can conduct a tour of the
            building to check potential architectural barriers (including a toilet inspection). It
            is worth to remember that not every 'wheelchair user' needs to use an adapted toilet.
            The candidate can assess everything himself. And then there is the issue of stairs. This
            is not a problem when non-disabled men work in the company. Unfortunately, the issue
            becomes more complicated with an electric wheelchair which weight without a passenger
            can exceed 100 kg.</p>
        <p><note type="tip">Enabling people with disabilities to work remotely would give these people
                opportunities to find better job and for employers to find a qualified employee. In
                a case when an employee has a significant degree of disability and a special medical
                condition, he/she would cost nothing to an employer due to a possibility of using a
                multiple deduction. Employer wouldn't have to pay to PFRON 9744 PLN each month if he
                hired such person. Due to their condition, remote work would be perfect for them and
                for the employer, as there would be no need to prepare a workstation for a remote
                employee. </note></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
